# Catapult Raspberry PI Environment Monitoring
#### Capstone Project - Vera Rodriguez - Ada Developers' Academy
Raspberry Pi temperature and Humidity reporter through AWS IOT Things system.

## Table of Contents

* [Introduction and Technologies](#Introduction-and-Technologies)
* [AWS IOT Internet of Things](#AWS-IOT-Internet-of-Things)
* [Data-visualization-AWS-console](#)

## Introduction and Technologies
**The problem**: 

Monitoring events
Controlling a GPIO pin
Monitoring temperature with the DHT22 sensor
Send information to the cloud

**The solution**: 
    
  * Monitoring events and controlling a GPI pin
    * Built with Python 3.7 
    * Data from the DTH22 sensor
    
  * AWS IOT (Internet of thins) Send data from the sensor to the cloud
    * Create a AWS Thing [Steps to create the certificates and the thing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/iot/latest/developerguide/iot-moisture-create-thing.html)
    * Built with Python 3.7 AWS SDK [Github repository](https://github.com/aws/aws-iot-device-sdk-python-v2)

## AWS IOT Internet of Things

  * Key data: 
    * Certificates are used to authenticate the requests and it is must to activate the certificate before use it
    * Policies are used to check whether the requesting resources are authorized or not
    * Topics are not visible to the outside world. When you are publishing or subscribing to the topic you just have to mention a topic name accordingly. Now it all set in the AWS IoT end. In conclusion, we have created a thing. certificate and policy and then we have attached the thing and policy to the certificate.

### Use cases

AWS IoT makes it easy for you to build scalable IoT applications that collect, process, analyze, and act on data generated by connected home devices without having to manage any infrastructure. This helps you focus on building solutions and experiences that deliver value to both your businesses and your consumers and create a new class of connected home applications that interact with the physical world. [Iot Solutions](https://aws.amazon.com/iot/solutions/connected-home/?c=i&sec=uc2)

### Installation Instructions

#### AWS IoT Configurations
   * Thing
        Thing is representing the actual hardware device in the AWS IoT side. AWS IoT will provide the HTTPS endpoint to interact with the thing and to communicate with thing it is must to have a secure connection using SSL certificate.
        
   * Configuring a thing in the AWS IoT:
      1. Log in to the AWS console and then navigate to the IoT Core dashboard. Now click on the Manage -> Things link.
      1. Click on the create button to create a thing and follow the wizard. In the 2nd step click on the “Create thing without certificate” button.
      1. Now you should be able to view the created thing in the thing dashboard. 
      1. Click on the particular thing and inspect the options which are associated with the thing. To interact with the thing there is a HTTPS endpoint under the interact link.
      
   * Create AWS sign certificate:
      1. Click on the Secure -> Certificates link and then click in the create button on the IoT Core dashboard.
      1. As we are using the AWS sign certificate, now click on the “Create certificate” button. 
      1. Download the certificate, public key, private key and the root CA certificate by clicking each “Download” button in the new window. Also make sure to activate the certificate by clicking the “Activate” button.
      
   * Adding new policy:
     1. Click on the Secure -> Policies link and then click on the create button in the IoT Core dashboard.
     1. Name the policy and then add the below policy settings to it by using the advance mode option.
     
* Attaching Thing and Policy to the Certificate:
     1. Click on the Secure -> Certificates link to view the certificates list. Now by clicking the three dot mark on the relevant certificate you would be able to attach the thing and the policy to the given certificate.

## Data visualization AWS console

### Use case

### Installation Instructions
